# Midi to Hydrogen Drum Pattern Auto-generator
A set of scripts to generate hydrogen drum patterns from drum based midi files and midi files from patterns.
This projects is a sub-project of a larger effort to use Machine Learning to generate midi based drum tracks based on a Recursive Neural Network workflow. For input and training I used around 100K midi files available from the Internet Archives. 

For my own work I often use Hydrogen to generate interesting drum track sequences since the tool lends itself to this process quite well. Given my list of ML generated midi drum tracks, I thought it interesting to attempt to autogenerate Hydrogen Drum patterns from these drum tracks. I have generated a few thousand pattern files. In this example, I've limited the output to 25... but the code can be tweaked of course :)

Here's a 	[sample](sample.mp3)

**Dependencies**: Python 3.10+, pip

**Limitations**: The current notebooks assume output as 4/4 time, 16 beats per measure, 4 measures in duration.

**Oddities**: The pattern file names are chosen arbitrarily from a list of file names generated by ChatGPT

## There are three jupyter notebooks in this repo that will do the following things:
1. generate a set of Hydrogen drum patterns from midi drum files
2. generate midi files from a list of Hydrogen pattern files
3. generate an override Json document for use with specific Hydrogen Drumkits as needed

## Generating Drum Pattern files from Midi input files
Inputs are from a folder with midi files, preferrably already limited to drum track only files, but this is not required.
The notebook will read in the files and create four bars of output mapped to the positions allocated within the XML layout for 4/4 time 16 beats per measure, four measures


## Generating Midi drum files from Hydrogen Drum Pattern files
Pattern files are read from a folder and converted to midi outputs mapping positional patterns to midi start times and pattern instrument values to midi drum note values.
There is an optional process to add another pattern input arbitrarily to the original input creating a unique new midi file. This allows for a cyclical process of generating new patterns repeatedly


## Generating Drumkit overrides for a more nuanced pattern generation workflow
Since Hydrogen Drumkits vary in quality and instrumentation, I've added a process to allow for better instrument mapping if specific Drumkits are preferred. The notebook should be self-explanitory.
